Now let's continue working on this mini application and let's make sure that clicking on this button
here actually does something.
Now there are various approaches to making sure we can reach out to that button, approach A would be
to not add it here in innerHTML but instead added as an object you create with document create element,
then you would just have to get access to some part of that rendered HTML code, to that div for example
so that you can append that created object, therefore approach B is the one I'll use, is where I have
the button in there but then I need to get access to it and for that, I can access to my add cart button
or however you want to name that constant with the help of prod el which is that element we created
and then in there we can of course use query selector for example to select the first button we find.
We only have one button in there and therefore this is the button we get access to.
Now please note, since I execute this inside of the render method of this class, this always applies
to this snippet which is created for this concrete instance which is later created on that class.
So the fact that we'll create multiple products and therefore have multiple buttons on the screen does
not cause a problem here because when this code runs here, this entire code, we're only looking at a single
product because we're in a single class which is responsible for creating a single product.
So we will run this code on this snippet which only holds one button and therefore we get access to
exactly that button for this product.
Now here I then got access to this button,
now we can add an event listener here, click listener and execute a function or to be precise,
probably a method because adding a product to a cart,
well for me that again makes sense to be a method of this product item class here.
So we can add another method, position doesn't matter, doesn't have to be above or below render,
you can add it anywhere because Javascript parses and kind of saves that entire definition before your
code executes.
So here I will add it above but that's not a must do
and I will call this method add to cart,
of course it's totally up to you how you call it
and in there, I then want to later add logic to add it, for now I'll just connect this. So here on add event
listener,
I'll point at this
add to cart and then here I will console log
adding product to cart and I'll also console log this product so that we can see which product was added.
So now we're adding the event listener down there,
let's now have a look. Let's save that and reload and click add to cart and what you'll see is something strange,
you see undefined here.
So you don't see the product which we clicked on which should be the pillow but instead undefined,
now why is that?
Well it's related to the behavior of this which I talked about in the objects module. We execute
add to cart whenever the button is clicked, we assign the add to cart method of this object, of this
class to this button or to this event listener.
Now as you learned in that object module, Javascript then binds this to the source of that event,
so to that button and not to your your class or the object where this effectively runs on later.
The solution or one possible solution is to use bind here and bind this,
so that means that we bind this inside of add to cart,
so what this refers to instead of this method to the same thing
this refers to in this place here and this here in this code snippet refers to the entire object, so to
this product item object assuming that we call render on an instance of this object, which is exactly what
we're doing down there.
Here we create the instance, here we call render on that instance.
So therefore this now should refer to the correct thing and hence if we save that we reload and click
here,
indeed here I log this product object,
so that works
now. Of course that's not the final logic I want to execute if we add something to cart though,
instead I want to have an object, a cart object, probably a cart class which also renders some output
to the screen which in the end then holds a list of all the products and calculates a sum which then
is output on the screen.